the chat
yeah we're live all right
hello hi everyone
it's a pleasure to have you with us
today
i my name is lisa nester i am a
I my name is lisa nester I am a
senior strategist at the Stellar
development foundation
and you are joining us for our
third roundtable discussion second topic
that we've ever covered
and we are very happy to have you with
us today
so i guess to get started i'd love to
so I guess to get started i'd love to
kind of frame
again the purpose of these roundtable
discussions hopefully we're going to
have a lot of
audience members and viewers joining in
and we'd love to invite you into the
discussion as well
and then i'll jump into what the topic
for today is
so in general
at the Stellar development foundation
you know we want to make sure that we're
facilitating
broad inclusive ecosystem driven
discussion
around the types of tools that the
Stellar ecosystem needs to continue to
grow
on and have successful use cases and
businesses utilizing Stellar
and so in that regard we've started
these enterprise roundtable discussions
to invite
key enterprises within the Stellar
ecosystem to sit down at a table with
various members of the seller
development foundation to discuss
topics that are really timely and
important for the growth of the
ecosystem right now
and as i've mentioned we also live
stream these events
and have a q a box for any viewers so
that we really can do our best to
include all of the voices in the
ecosystem
so if you're watching us and you
have comments or questions as we go
through this discussion
please drop them in the chat box and
we'll do our best to
respond and include those perspectives
so
for the discussion today we're going to
be talking about custodial versus
non-custodial applications in the
Stellar ecosystem
and so why is this an important topic
well
the truth is that if you're building a
product on Stellar or
any blockchain network really one of the
first things you have to figure out
is how to manage your user secret keys
there are two fundamentally different
approaches that
are seemingly practically and
philosophically at odds
custodial solution keeps keep keys on
behalf of users and non-custodial
solutions
put keys into users hands and i think
put keys into users hands and I think
most of us would agree that during the
early days of Stellar and also within
the broader crypto landscape
non-custodial wallet designs were kind
of by and far the default
in my opinion this is because the
novelty of kind of being your own bank
and having direct
access to digital assets drove forward
applications
and wallets that were primarily not
custodial nature
however as the Stellar ecosystem has
grown over the last few years
we have seen more custodial design
approaches by enterprise and our
ecosystem
so that's why we're opening up this
discussion today
because we've seen a lot of growth in
applications on Stellar
that are getting more and more users we
think it's a great time to check in
on how wallets are currently set up
experiences people are having and how
they're thinking about moving forward
and then also we have two at least two
kind of specific technical developments
within the Stellar ecosystem
that are worth checking in on as
they're related to the specific topic at
hand
so one is cap 27 so cap 27
is allows first class multi multiplex
accounts
this was included in protocol 13 and
it basically allows services to map a
single seller account to multiple users
and it could make custodial solutions a
lot easier to build
on the other hand we also have sep 30
which is a recovery signer
and this defines an api that enables a
user to regain access to a Stellar
account
after losing a private key without
providing a third party control of the
account
we're actually really lucky to have
the key architect for step 30 lee from
the sdf joining us today
and this solution in particular is
something that could make non-custodial
solutions a bit easier
so kind of checking in on where
things are at and also thinking about
these two new technical developments
this is going to be the focus of our
discussion today on custodial versus
non-custodial solutions
so with that i would love to get
so with that I would love to get
started
and i would love to start by having
and I would love to start by having
our fantastic guests join us
i will call you out just because we're
I will call you out just because we're
on screen and not in person
so if i can invite marco to stardust
so if I can invite marco to stardust
hello thanks for having us here my
name is marco
i am one of the co-founders at saldo
I am one of the co-founders at saldo
mx
and anchor service for the mexican peso
wonderful thanks marco all right how
about meinhard next
yes so yeah my name is mayanhard and I'm
the ceo
and founder of satoshi pay and recently
we launched d
transfer which is a b2b cross-border
money transfer service
and that's kind of the main focus of
what we're doing right now
awesome and actually for god i said that
awesome and actually for god I said that
i was going to ask a special
I was going to ask a special
surprise question so we'll come back to
you marco and this goes straight to you
mine hard any new quarantine hobbies
that you've picked up over the last nine
months we'll say
20 20 new hobbies
not strictly your hobby but i
meditate every day
so that's going to be something i picked
so that's going to be something I picked
up okay this time
yeah awesome marco
well this is exactly i mean not a hobby
well this is exactly I mean not a hobby
either
but i've been like learning a lot of
cooking
months so yeah and i enjoy it so
months so yeah and I enjoy it so
happy hopefully other people are
enjoying it too that's awesome that's
great
cool and then i will turn it over to you
cool and then I will turn it over to you
christian
yes thanks for having me I'm
christian the cto and co-founder of
d-stock
so we do tokenized securities such as
apple and tesla and make them tradeable
on the decks
and yeah we're live since i think not
and yeah we're live since I think not
two or three months
and have looked deep into custodial
solutions
quite late great and any quarantine
hobbies that you picked up
not really hobbies actually so actually
the thing is in germany there was a
lockdown of schools as well so i was
lockdown of schools as well so I was
like
after doing a lot of cryptographic math
in the last year i was doing a lot of
in the last year I was doing a lot of
primary school mars this year when i was
primary school mars this year when I was
had to teach my daughter so
that has become my hobby that's fair
enough that's good
all right and so next i'll hand it
over to justin
from the sdf hi I'm justin head of
ecosystem at the Stellar development
foundation
excited to be here obviously well my
team
we care a lot about what the
ecosystem is doing and whenever there
are improvements or changes
part of what we try to find out is
whether they work for the ecosystem and
also how to get them out there so that
everybody's using them in a way that
makes things interoperable so
very interested to hear people's
feedback my quarantine hobby so far is
asbestos remediation
that's an important hobby i hope
that's an important hobby I hope
everyone
everyone checks it out any homeowner
should make sure to develop that hobby
i live in an old house and it turns out
I live in an old house and it turns out
there was a lot of asbestos
and okay that just becomes a consuming
thing
it can yeah absolutely okay and then
last but not least
lee yeah hi I'm I'm
liam khalik I'm a software engineer at
the Stellar development foundation
and i contribute to
and I contribute to
sets like sub 30 septem and
yeah I'm just really interested in
custodial and non-custodial solutions
and
how we make them interoperable well
sounds like you're in the right place
lee
but you can you don't get away
without letting us know if you have any
quarantine hobbies as well
similar similar similar to christian
definitely became a teacher as well
okay those are skills that will pay off
though I'm sure so
that's great i myself picked up
that's great I myself picked up
skateboarding and this thing called a
rip stick a little bit that's kind of
like a
cool that was you know a good way to
when maybe there's no commute it was a
nice way to spend the afternoons after
work
so okay great well i would love to
so okay great well I would love to
dive in
i guess straight into the meat of it
I guess straight into the meat of it
which is
i'd love to hear what each of you are
doing
for your current custodial strategy with
estoc and saldo
and satoshi bay and
you know maybe a little bit about why
you chose that approach
and how you're thinking about things now
moving forward so minehart perhaps we'll
start with you
sure so at satoshi bay we essentially
have three major services
one is the micro payment service that
we're known for micropayment for digital
content
then there's obviously the solar wallet
open source Stellar wallet
and then recently there's d transfer and
all of all of them
use a wallet solution that's
self-custodial and I'm saying
self-control here because internally we
use that word instead of
non-custodial because we think
non-custodial is a bit
misleading because there is a custodian
which is yourself
and so we chose to be self-custodial
essentially just to have everything
be software and all the trust is in
software
and not in any external party not even
us
this helps us to move further or to
release products to the market much
quicker
and also has removed a huge overhead
in
potential regulation or regulatory
regulatory requirements that we have to
fulfill
so we can just push out the software and
sort of have people manage their own
private keys and
therefore being really just a software
provider in that sense
and that being said so for d transfer
we recently
also released a self custodial
resolution on monday actually to
production
and here we really give users the
full control over the funds
and also the reason again is a
regulatory one
however in the future we plan to give
users a choice maybe that
they can either have a custodial
solution
by us or by some other external the
custodial
party that we partner with or even
combine both approaches
that's super interesting i mean is that
that's super interesting I mean is that
something that
would be a relatively easy opt-in
decision
to kind of automate from a back-end
perspective or would these need to be
two totally separate kind of
infrastructure solutions so yeah
so the combination would be very
separate or not very but
a pretty separate legal
let's say connections that we have with
our users and also technically
it would be quite different yeah so
that's also where the different caps and
steps come into play each on their side
so
it's going to be quite some
development work and also some some
let's say legal ground work that we have
to lay first
what is motivating you to consider
adding this second solution
where you provide custody
mainly user experience
because a lot of the customers we have
are not familiar with
this sort of power that
self has so also the power to lose your
money essentially
and that is something we want to
maybe
give users the choice if they you know
want to be in full control
or if they trust us with a certain
amount of
of their money or even all of their
money like a more like a bank-like
service
it's also right now we didn't find a
custody partner yet
and also we're not regulated in that way
so
it's we can't actually legally launch
a self
or sorry a custodial solution at this
point but we can launch
the self custodial and that's why we
move forward with that
with that we can now handle bigger
transactions as well
as much as there's digits and there's
let's say a Stellar
code we can we can add like even very
large amounts if we want
that's great i really want to dive
that's great I really want to dive
into some of those points more
specifically around you know the
usability side of things
and I'm also kind of curious to hear for
the users that you think would want a
non-custodial solution kind of what
is a driver or motivator there as well
but maybe let's go ahead and
jump to marco to get a little bit more
of our landscape about
where we're all currently or where
you're currently sitting
yeah thanks well
philosophically I'm personally very
aligned with
the self-custody movement
that you know cryptocurrency has started
and
i don't see for example in in
I don't see for example in in
single asset blockchain such as bitcoin
the really the need
of of thinking through like custodial
solutions
but however i i've i've seen
but however I i've i've seen
Stellar since the very beginning
seeing and realizing the market
opportunity of representing
real-world assets on on on this public
network and
allow exchanges and and transfers and
that requires a lot of companies like
ours
to that are regulated entities
capable of of holding value for
on the behalf of their users to
participate
and the needs actually that these
companies
have is is they're very different
because like they want to leverage
the this ability to hold people's funds
and and be able to to
like improve usability as much as
possible
and remove any any friction that can be
created by by the self-custody
approach which we all know very well
and i think
and I think
what what we've seen is
under development especially you know
from
from from the ecosystem of standards
that can help expand
those custodial solutions
and and and i think that's something
and and and I think that's something
that
we should think through more
and focus because the same way that
in cryptocurrency has has been like
expanding
thanks in big part to exchanges which
are custodial solutions
i think that it at the end of the day it
I think that it at the end of the day it
will be
extremely beneficial for all if
more custodial solutions are able to
to adopt the the kind of the Stellar
protocol in
in in a way that makes sense for them
and in that way
increase the use of of the whole
network
and and benefit including like those
players that are that are using
self-custody solutions
yeah i mean i think that this is you
yeah I mean I think that this is you
know it's
i think there's kind of a philosophical
I think there's kind of a philosophical
point of tension here
where you know i think many of the
where you know I think many of the
people within the Stellar community
really like the financial sovereignty
that blockchain
can provide but there's also
typically a deep desire to create impact
to use
a platform like Stellar to
provide more access to financial
products and services for everyone right
and so how do we do that in really
simple
ways or how do we do that in ways that
work across user types
outside of just people who
really understand cryptocurrency so
but marco can you help clarify
how does saldo actually work how are
you set up right now
yeah so we we as an anchor support like
both
like approaches so if someone wants
to
you know utilize our services through
a non-custodial solution like lobster
they can go ahead and do it but we're
also
maintaining a service that it's
called
smx that it's
our custodial solution that we believe
it's really important for
for for the business development of of
our company
so that basically is a very easy way
to to use a wallet that
allows especially mexicans who are
in in the us working hard and sending
money over
to hold a little bit of mexican pesos
in in in a digital way and and that
replaces the need to go and cross the
border and open a bank account which is
almost impossible for for the majority
of them so like we are
really focusing on this community which
is not tech savvy
he's not a part of the crypto community
at all and and and we've been like super
motivated
from from what we've seen and and and
and this is a community that actually
could not care less about like the self
sovereign aspect of crypto but they
just want like the task to be done
and so they we've been like developing
these with these people in mind and and
that's for our company a big focus
right now
and and and and we also want to make it
compatible with with
any other Stellar-based solution but
in our in in in our approach this is
a fully custodial way of doing the
of using our anchor
gotcha and it sounds like you already
have some thoughts on
where there could be more support within
the Stellar ecosystem
for being able to kind of launch these
types of products
yeah i i think that you know they're
yeah I think that you know they're
already there a lot of
interesting discussions like the like
the moxed like multiplexed accounts
that you mentioned
but probably we yeah we and I'm sure
we will talk
more about this later on but
i think that it's it's in general
I think that it's it's in general
very interesting just to kind of like
see what the users are doing and and
and
and just like see that basically
the entire world it's it's it's gonna
take a long time
for for for the majority of people to
adopt
like the self-custody tools out there
and i think that we should
and I think that we should
like be kind of like aware that
there's a path towards that kind of like
decentralization and in the meantime
it's really important
to serve the people that
they want to be served in a in a
specific way and and
for us like we are at a stage in which
is really important to
to provide a custodial and easy to use
solutions like like this great yeah and
i think we definitely will
I think we definitely will
dive into some of these various
things like multiplexed accounts more so
great thank you so much marco and
christian i know you guys have had an
christian I know you guys have had an
interesting journey with these talks
so we'd love to hear about
what you guys are using how you set
things up and how you're thinking about
the future
yeah i already have a lot of points i
yeah I already have a lot of points i
want to touch on so
yeah maybe i can start with there are
yeah maybe I can start with there are
actually two different ways
how you or multiple ways actually how
you can use these stock technologies so
first of all there's an api layer which
basically everyone can use it uses
Stellar standards and people can build
products on top of it
and for that one we actually don't have
any opinion on what the user
how the user protects his key his or her
keys so
we just basically verify the user and
where he's coming from if it's not like
a terrorist something like that and then
they can use their account to trade our
assets but
we as well that's our actually main
product do we have a mobile app
and because countries we serve emerging
markets
there's a mobile first approach and this
app is actually not targeting crypto
users
so if you want to use if you're a
Stellar heavy user and you want to use
these stock assets you can use for
example lobster wallet or something like
that but
for already non-crypto users who are new
to investing
and haven't had touch points at all
with crypto in the past
it's actually quite quite of a hard
concept to grasp to create a private key
so like currently in our onboarding
process which is self custodial
I'm going to start to use this word as
well it's an xd minor
the people actually in the onboarding
process have to create a private key and
we see actually some some kind of a
drop-off rate right on that so it's like
people have a hard time doing that so
i understand that they're a bit scared
I understand that they're a bit scared
maybe they don't understand it and
things like that so that that's a
problem actually to us and i think to to
problem actually to us and I think to to
everyone who wants to build end user
product that's not just
targeting early adopted adopters
and the tricky part on this one is
like
in the very heart of d stock is that d
stock itself does not hold customer
customers funds so that's that's the
basic idea how how we can actually pull
off the entire business
and that's true for for most of of
crypto companies i guess
crypto companies I guess
that they don't hold customers funds and
are therefore eligible to cut off a
lot of middlemen that are normally
required in financial
transactions and yeah so
basically if we want to want to go away
from that and we're actually planning to
do that so we need to
we want to find a solution that makes it
easier for undo this
we have to go to some way that's not
only self-custodial and I'm not saying
well let me phrase it differently the
first thing that we need to define or
that we have to talk about is
what actually does custodian what what
does the custodial solution mean in this
case and this definition isn't
actually
as clear as i would as one would guess
as clear as I would as one would guess
so we're always talking about okay
they're self
solving their self-custodial solutions
and custodial solutions
but the definition of custodial is quite
a bit more complex i've read it to the
bit for example the barfin which is a
german equivalent roughly the german
equivalent
to the icc in america defines custody as
someone who's holding
a funds off on behalf of other people
is able to transfer them make payments
with that and all this kind of stuff
and all holds a private key that's
eligible to do that
and for example in step 30 that's where
you say okay we're splitting off weights
between third parties
that need to jointly recover a key
for user
that's not really that definition so
it's not really clear that's
actually a custodial solution that would
require regulations
so like by the very definition of
financial regulators it may not be but
it's actually not that clear because
it's just basically new land so nobody
has actually challenged that
maybe the regulators weren't even aware
that their weighted keys things like
that says
the entire entire field is it's not as
easy
as it gets so for us it's like very
crucial to find a solution where we
say okay people will be able to
recover the key but
i wouldn't call that a custodian
I wouldn't call that a custodian
custodial solution because the people
does
do not hold the funds of the user in
custody they're not able to
to transfer them doing stuff with
that
and more importantly they are not able
to
yeah then they don't have to do
insurance and things like that for it so
yeah that's that's the basic thing i'll
sing around it so customian solutions
are non-custodials who
should be it's not the only thing in the
real midst as well just mainly for us
about key recovery that we want to try
to solve
that's great i mean i guess I'm curious
that's great I mean I guess I'm curious
do you mine heart or marco have
kind of like a similar opinion or
reaction
extremely relevant and interesting
because
for example i think that for
for example I think that for
you know for a lot of regulators the
fact that
a user of of
a regulated entity actually goes and
does something and and loses the private
key
is not sufficient like for the regulator
to to just be fined
the the legal obligation you know that
that the company
has still is is is a valid payment
obligation
that the company needs to honor so i
think it's it's not
sufficient just to you know like it's
it's it's like the key management will
not
remove or will not make go away that
legal kind of like obligation that
some custodial companies have and and
that it's
it's it's something that it's very like
valid
across like all the kind of like real
world assets
including currencies and i think
including currencies and I think
you know like
at that point like you realize that
somehow
for example if if a user of of our
anchor loses
like the private key and you still see
the funds you at least
need to show that you have a process to
be
able to to in a way cancel those funds
or or or do something with with that
account
and then like credit back those
tokens to the new or or like re-key
kind of like you know like doing
those things
it's it helps companies like ours to
comply with with local regulations that
are not aware
of like what what private keys can do
and i think it's like super interesting
and I think it's like super interesting
and makes companies like ours realize
that it's it's a very complex
topic
that that is an interesting point you
make
oh you go first planet okay then
that's interesting
okay sorry for that that's an
interesting point to raise i mean when
interesting point to raise I mean when
you when you when you're anchoring an
asset
you always have the option to freeze it
and okay it's still
still on chain and it's a bit harder
to keep track of it but it's still in an
automated way you can
can prove that this assets are frozen
when you when you for example kind of
take away trust lines
and then you can issue the token
the assets new and that's that's it's
somewhat of a cumbersome way
it may be easier in the future because
there are some proposed changes to
Stellar to
to reclaim assets but this is some way
for us for example to
to recover recover funds at the moment
even if the people lose their
their key in their self-custodial
solution the problem
is actually not from that so we can
always do that the problem is merely
if the user just for example deposits a
million in excel
and then loses this key or her key or
the same for for stablecoin so may not
be able
up to this process so but the the
interesting idea of just reading the
assets and
reissuing them to new accounts is always
an option as well that's
so you don't have to so that you just
give up the old account when you lose
the key
just just on that briefly
obviously
you need to flag the asset as being
revocable
and yeah there's acid types where you
work
there's configurations where you don't
have that so if you forgot to do that or
if you didn't plan for that then
obviously that's not possible either
so what we've done in our micro payments
product actually
we used a little bit of a trick there so
we are co-signing all the transactions
that are being done
from for the micropens wallets and
we also have a time locked
transaction that we issue with each
payment
meaning that after a certain
period of time
the funds will return back to us if no
other
transactions have been made meaning that
if the user loses a key
and they flag us they tell us that they
did so we will simply not co-sign any
transactions
from that key anymore and then
after half a year i think it's currently
after half a year I think it's currently
the time that we have programmed
we can then recover these funds that
means we can issue even lumens
to the users from we kind of
give out a bit of our liquidity
beforehand but in that way we can
also sort of have a account recovery for
accounts that
actually are lost but the funds will
come back to us
later after half a year sort of a
sort of a workaround for that issue
but isn't co-signing the definition of
it not being as
purely self-custodial
depends on the type of weight a key has
so if you have you know like a minority
weight and then so i don't know how the
weight and then so I don't know how the
regulator regulator sees
different types of water signatures
because that's also depending on the
chain obviously
i well it's
I well it's
a hybrid i would say
a hybrid I would say
yeah and i think you know just to kind
yeah and I think you know just to kind
of respond here
so one i wanted to flag
so one I wanted to flag
christian had mentioned
a cap on Stellar which i wanted to name
a cap on Stellar which I wanted to name
just if anybody's
watching yeah cap 35 which is the
asset clawback
cap which is a new proposal so
if anyone's interested
in exploring that further but you
know this is really
interesting because it still feels like
we're dancing around
these areas of
kind of how can you stay lean and
you know i would say kind of
you know I would say kind of
do things that allow you as an
organization
to kind of have
a leaner regulatory framework as
authentic
along with things that are more tied
to
kind of like usability and how do we
make
experiences for consumers to
that can keep their information safe
but still provide kind of like
non-confusing
not overburdened some experiences on the
product
i mean do you guys see any other major
I mean do you guys see any other major
areas that are kind of
i'll say kind of like dancing around
the surface here because i know we're
the surface here because I know we're
kind of talking back and forth about
various designs but it feels like
there's kind of like larger
larger themes or larger questions so
maybe i i can start because i i i mean
maybe I can start because I mean
we
we we've been like also thinking
about this the problem is that
if honestly it is true that it
removes liability the fact that you can
actually delegate the key management to
your users
and that like fundamentally will remove
like regular regulatory like load
the problem is that if you see what
happens in
in fintech is that okay regulation
is more expensive than software sure but
is it at the top of the list
i don't think so it's like you have
I don't think so it's like you have
software which is cheap
and then you have regulation which is
way more expensive and then you have
distribution so if you see like what's
the big expenses that
the companies have it's most like
distribution
a customer acquisition cost
is what sometimes kills like the unit
economics
so it's not regulation at all even if
it's like super expensive
so i think that a lot of companies
so I think that a lot of companies
realize that
okay yeah there's some efficiencies to
be made in
in that you know liability that goes
away
but it's not the entire story so you
still will
need to go and find the users and that's
like extremely expensive
and then sometimes it's even more
expensive
if you need to make them learn
what like a 12 like
12 word password means or what
like a mechanism to
like that it's not intuitive is to
recover
like the secret key for your funds so
that those things
will add costs to that very like
heavy heavy cost of of customer
acquisition
or will reduce that the universe of
people that you can target
and i think that's something that
and I think that's something that
from the business
perspective it's it's not
very positive
so so i have a question which is
so so I have a question which is
basically if you had
something i mean and this sort of
something I mean and this sort of
relates specifically to step 30 which i
think is a very clever
way to give users access to their
account without ever having them to
touch a
password or know a secret key or use a
backup recovery phase they can basically
log into a Stellar account using just
their phone number or their email
address some proof of identity
right so with a with a solution like
that
you know well i guess there's two
you know well I guess there's two
questions one
does a solution like that solve the user
experience and allow you to create a
non-custodial sort of interface or
solution that doesn't feel that sort of
obfuscates the crypto nature of an app
from a user
like basically can using something like
sub30 make it so that
a user experience for non-custodial
wallet is just like a custodial wallet
one and two if it does
does it solve the biggest problems or
does it
only solve some of the problems and
there are still a lot of problems left
over that would still make you
choose to use a custodial solution
i mean maybe i can i can just
I mean maybe I can I can just
quickly say that i think it's the final
quickly say that I think it's the final
user who will judge those things
because at the end of the day for me
it's very intuitive to use a memo id
just to identify a final user that that
actually hasn't been the case for the
majority of users of exchanges
so in a way like something that feels
very intuitive
in from the kind of the sign point of
view
and this is this is true across many
different steps that for me makes a lot
of sense
but once that they're implemented
like things become trickier
and i think that's the only thing that i
and I think that's the only thing that i
that i could say probably christian can
that I could say probably christian can
say much more
yeah well i think well first of all i
yeah well I think well first of all i
like the basic idea of
study and it's definitely a valid one
we we do have some problems with it
by when we want to to implement it that
it's one thing that that's very common
among when we implement step
ecosystem proposals for those who
don't know our standards in the stutter
system that anchors or people building
on it can implement and then everyone
can use it and it's interoperable
between different clients and that is
that is a good thing if you're a
client for example there is step six
and set 24 for
deposits and withdrawals from anchors
and it's super nice so basically i am as
and it's super nice so basically I am as
a developer i can go ahead and
a developer I can go ahead and
integrate 10 of them in a day and that's
super nice for me as
a client developer but to be honest it's
not something i care about as a
not something I care about as a
developer
what i care about is optimization of the
what I care about is optimization of the
user flow so for example deposits
is the most crucial thing in our flow
ever
and if i can increase conversion there
and if I can increase conversion there
by one percent or by five percent or by
ten percent
then i would do that so it's not it's
then I would do that so it's not it's
I'm not fundamentally not interested in
getting this thing done
fast i want to get it done right and
fast I want to get it done right and
currently i can't do a b
currently I can't do a b
testing i can't do client-side
testing I can't do client-side
validations with steps and withdrawals
for example just
just as an example for for seventy grade
so this sep integration
as a whole focus on clients getting the
job done
and that's not what we want to do and
tab 30 is kind of the same thing it has
it it automates the entire flow for our
clients that we can just
do it and then integrate a little
integrate a lot with a lot of other
clients who integrate
30 but it's it's not coming from from
the perspective of the client so for
example i'll give you an
example quite lately quite recently
i've lost my
two-factor authentication and i think
two-factor authentication and I think
was coinbase
and it wasn't an automated process i had
and it wasn't an automated process I had
to censor my passport there was a person
talking to me and that's that's fine
it's something i would expect as a user
it's something I would expect as a user
and it encouraged me that this those
people do their business right
whereas on step 30 if the ease of the
flow is like okay
my email my SMS is something i wouldn't
my email my SMS is something I wouldn't
fundamentally like as a user
to be connected with me that I'm just
pushing a tech away from losing my
entire life saving savings when
someone captures my email
and my wife quite recently changed her
phone number she doesn't even have
access to a whole number anymore so it's
like
it's it's kind of a weak thing for us
and it focuses a lot of
it's being automated people don't have
to hassle with it it's fully integrated
it's decentralized
and that's fundamentally not anything
our users care about the basic care you
just want to log into the app
have an account and never care about it
and
for us it would be totally fine if there
would be just a person
having an hd wallet in the physical
world and it costs like
thirty dollars or ten dollars or twenty
dollars for key recovery because
if it's below it doesn't make sense
anyways if it's above
fine or we could scale it but
having an approach that's just
focusing on the client side wouldn't cut
it for our users so we would we would
have to have
have a process that's that's more
tied to the user experience and the user
doesn't want to want to care about that
at all i think that
at all I think that
just for my side i talked a lot so maybe
just for my side I talked a lot so maybe
i'll keep it shut now
do you do you think that there's like i
think i think we've mentioned
think I think we've mentioned
in a few points like there's this
there's this issue of
keys being lost and then what do people
what do users go
through to get their keys back and then
we're talking separately about
the products we're developing and all
the functionality they provide
do you think that there's room for
custody as a product independent of the
products
you're developing
so maybe i can take this one
so maybe I can take this one
definitely
so i don't know if this is starting to
so I don't know if this is starting to
christian but definitely for us that
would be
something we desperately want the
ecosystem
and it would have to be a custodian that
supports different Stellar assets as
well and there are
wallets that support lumens already
and insurance that
support lumix but to extend that to
other assets and maybe even traits
to some extent that would be
definitely something we would
want to integrate and that's actually
what we're actively looking for
i would want to make again the
I would want to make again the
separation between custody and key
recovery
so we don't want to have custody we
don't want one
want want so traditional custody
solutions work like they don't expose a
private key to anyone but even the users
belonging to that
and you send transactions to some kind
of signing service to give it back so we
we don't want that we
won't always want to have self custody
and the user be in charge
of the things with his with possession
of his or her own key
what we want on top is key recovery
solutions pretty much like sub 30 would
offer
it conceptually with multiple recovery
processes
as as weights where not each weight
does not have
the option to to trade but
i understand where he was coming from it
I understand where he was coming from it
was it was developed with a different
thing in mind it was what was basically
developed for the use case
of not only key recovery it was as
well developed for sharing keys and all
kind of use cases
that are required alongside when you're
not the only one
having access to that key and for that
step study makes a totally perfect job i
think
it's just like for our purposes but we
don't want one all of those features we
just basically want
at any any and in a very seldom selling
case someone loses
his or her key can recover it and for
that i think it would be
that I think it would be
fine if there would be just like two or
three maybe notaries or
trust trust companies banks whatever
who would provide the service and maybe
maybe just a call center or something
like that where people could
provide their id's and initiate a
recovery process so
for the users of ours that would it
doesn't have to be this
decentralized solution because most of
the users are not crypto maximalists who
said
everything needs to be decentralized and
all these kind of things
one thing if i could make make a
one thing if I could make make a
proposal that's
a bit more technical involved would be
that
it's fundamental to Stellar to have
counterparty risk right so
you have to establish trust lines to
assets or anchors where you say okay
i trust those people so they say maybe
I trust those people so they say maybe
for this you say hello
these people are sitting in europe they
are
they are test by the regulators there
that's a bank bank in europe that
hold the assets in custody so that's
great i trust those guys
great I trust those guys
i encourage you to do so i
I encourage you to do so i
established a trust line to to these
stock assets
and maybe that would be true for
custodians as well where you can say hey
I'm establishing some
kind of custodian custodial trust lines
where i say hey this guy
where I say hey this guy
can or girl or entity can hold a
specific weight of my assets
so that you have it somehow baked into
the protocol level but that's just for
the far future for the very near future
it would be just
basically fine to have two or three who
are not who are who establish trust by
being used by many of the enterprises
building up on Stellar
marco and my heart I'm interested if
that idea appeals to the two of you also
which idea that
basically the idea of there being
sort of trusted custodian professional
custodians
out there that that you could i think in
out there that that you could I think in
general
it's it it it fulfills a need
i i've seen always Stellar as a very
I i've seen always Stellar as a very
diverse ecosystem
and i think that the problem of like
and I think that the problem of like
discussing
topics of like one solution versus the
other
it's like it's not giving the full
picture of what's happening
so Stellar actually for example i the
so Stellar actually for example I the
way i see it
way I see it
is that at least in the ecosystem we
touch there are multiple different roles
and and and they will like some of them
like will require something like that
and some of them
won't so for example like we're thinking
imagine a migrant worker that has the
need to send
over 200 that's not the same need of the
market maker that facilitates like the
exchange rates
that those other people benefit from
that actually move
millions of dollars so so so that
that makes
completely different needs and they're
both using Stellar
so i think in in in in one case
so I think in in in in one case
like shared keys are badly needed
and in other ways what what some other
projects
are are doing which is like completely
abstract in a way and
and and you know i why why would a
and and you know I why why would a
company like ours
would have the liability of the
people's funds
that's because like there aren't a lot
of funds maybe you can you can actually
because you're solving probably you have
like you know capital requirements
that
exceed those people's funds so like
those
things will at the end of the day
mitigate the risks and will make you
capable of fronting such risks
and i think that's that's what that's
and I think that's that's what that's
what i see so in
what I see so in
in my mind there's a lot of like
sophisticated players in the storage
system already
in a way that understand like how the
mechanics work but they
aren't yet
as many users as i would like to see i
as many users as I would like to see i
love to see every mexican who's
working in
a kitchen in new york using a system
that touches Stellar
and and and when you do that it's in
my mind
a product that completely looks like
something that this community would
expect
and that's completely something far from
from from something like except 30 or
something like that because they don't
want to deal with that
it just one like deal with the same
thing that they've been doing with other
companies
when things fail and and and that's like
the market needed that we've seen
yeah absolutely and i mean just one
yeah absolutely and I mean just one
point that you made there that i do
point that you made there that I do
think is really important
is that you know even when we're
thinking about the requirements for just
an application oftentimes
there's a whole kind of like broader
stack of
ecosystem that's required to kind of
make that end product
exist and everybody who's in that value
chain
has kind of differing needs based on
what they're doing so
so yeah i think that's fair you know
so yeah I think that's fair you know
i'd say well
we're in our last 15 minutes here and
so
you know i think we're already kind of
you know I think we're already kind of
doing this but i i would love to
doing this but I would love to
drive the discussion towards
kind of identifying gaps or
needs or we could also put these as
opportunities
within the ecosystem and so maybe
i'll just
phrase this in a slightly
constraining manner to
to kick things off like if you marco
meinhard and christian
could wave a magic wand and have like
one new thing exist in the Stellar
ecosystem to support
your vision of key management
what would that look like like what's
the the number one thing that you think
would be
super valuable for you
whoever wants whoever has a response to
that
i can start by by the the already
I can start by by the the already
multiplexed accounts that that we've
touched before it's in general i
think that
that's something that in my mind is
something that
that was missing and i think i would
that was missing and I think I would
love to see
completely adopted and the reason is
because the way
that i feel as a user like
that I feel as a user like
the way that memo ids are used
it's kind of like not intuitive
and and it's it's it feels
like a hack you know like you know every
everyone's familiar with
with a payment app where you can also
like include a message that travels with
with
with a payment and so but in this
specific
case we're like hacking that field
that memo field to actually embed
information
and that will make the payment to route
differently so that became
like the the default way of adopting
Stellar
like for exchanges and i think that you
like for exchanges and I think that you
know the entire
ecosystem accepted that was the way to
do it
but i think if there's a better way
but I think if there's a better way
to do it which in my
in my mind it is multiplexed accounts
we should like the sooner the better
adopt something like that
because you can actually free
that field which is important for
other use cases as an example
the first implementation we did for bill
pay actually encoded
information about the bill that
like the reference
of the invoice that that was intended to
be paid and that was encrypted and sent
over the memo so it's like to me
those are things that
other players may may find like
useful and interesting and will design
that way
and if we use that field as
just an additional feel that
together with the with the address we'll
actually
run the payment to to a different like
destination i think that
destination I think that
that's completely in my mind
something that shouldn't work that way
and and and and you know some evidence
is like people make a lot of mistakes
when they're like put assets in and out
of exchanges
and i think it feels like it's it would
and I think it feels like it's it would
be focusing
on on people and companies using
custodial wallets but i think it's the
custodial wallets but I think it's the
opposite i think
opposite I think
if it's widely adopted it's something
that
it would be there available for
everybody
and they will like just add a more
intuitive way to
just send payments to an address with
an amount
and that will like like satisfy the
need
of like the routing and and and all the
information that needs to travel with
each payment so
in my mind that's something that needs
to be
adopted obviously discussed before
and and and for me that that wouldn't be
like that
so you're you're putting your flag down
on the
cap 27 planet in the Stellar ecosystem
and i don't know where I'm going with
and I don't know where I'm going with
this but you're you're squarely on the
cap 27 multiplexed account
team yeah i think i i think so okay
team yeah I think I think so okay
great wonderful meinhard looks like
you maybe have a thing next
great yeah so also cap 27 is
really interesting for us and that's
something unfortunately i can't
something unfortunately I can't
answer maybe a leak and clarify
does it also sort of protects the
privacy of the recipients or is it
still easy to to
like conclude the address that's behind
it because that is something
also we would wish to have that we have
not the complete balance of all of our
clients immediately visible to maybe a
sender
and so in a way not anonymous but
partially anonymous transactions
at least for the recipient that would
be quite interesting for us
and then also something that christian
earlier said
like a sort of a footed approach or a
feathered federated approach for
key recovery or even for a coastal
resolution that would be
definitely quite interesting and then
you said
i should pick one thing but maybe
I should pick one thing but maybe
also you can say a third thing
it would be a sort of regulated
entities that are
offering this custody as a service and
not just key recovery so that's
definitely something we would
that would solve a lot of problems
for us right now because
fundamentally we're not really
also because of
our consumer's perspective or our user's
perspective
maximalists and and like you have to own
your key
ultimately we want to offer a a
transfer service that
passes on all the advantages of
blockchain or Stellar in this case
mainly speed and transaction cost and
also the transparency
and it doesn't have to be fully
self-custodial
in our sense like we want to give the
user the choice and
the user doesn't really care much about
that they should have a online banking
like experience
and that we need to know what's what's
behind it and not
also having the need to learn new
vocabulary and
new approaches so that's like how we
want to
place our service that makes sense yeah
i
i i concur that
I concur that
you know it seems like having along
with there being some kind of technical
aspects
to creating more capabilities
around key management there's also
potentially ecosystem partners that we
could bring in that would really
support this as well so and then lee
did you
do you know on cap 27 if it adds any
anonymity or I'm not sure if that's
something you're
too up to date on so yeah so
i can answer that it not not
I can answer that it not not
specifically so there's not like a
feature cap 27 that
that would make it any more
anonymous than
using a memo id for a transaction
however you know the service that's
using
the services using cap 27
you know could rotate ids for users so
they could change the id that a user is
using over time or
or you use some other strategies like
that that obviously has some
disadvantages if
if somebody is treating a cap 27 like a
market address as
a you know an actual address for that
user
if it's changing that could be
problematic but
i feel like this is this is similar
I feel like this is this is similar
to
virtual credit card numbers where you
have like a credit card and then you
have like
model ones you use for different
merchants maybe or different
people things like that
okay great thank you lee and then
christian
yeah well there's a short time and
there's long term so
basically we're fundamentally focusing
on
non-crypto users and for non-crypto
users convenience is important so
there's a reason why why why things like
what's app
are more popular than things like ebay's
because they are just more convenient
and user slower in terms of the more
convenient solution
all those but but i think that
all those but but I think that
fundamentally the the key recovery is
not should be
easy on the recovery process the
recovery process can be hard if i lose
recovery process can be hard if I lose
my wallets like my physical wallets my
credit cards in it I'm up for that that
it will be a complicated process
to get that all sorted so that that's
fine but
setting up my wallet and setting up my
my key that you that should be the
easy part and for us like the easiest
solution would be just hey on
the concretion when you create your
account on d stock we would just add two
or three
trusted and reputable
public keys and those people do have
some kind of recovery process if i
wouldn't be
totally filled with work at d stock i
would right now fund a company started
start a startup
doing exactly that because there's a
need for that and
like in the long term i could see that
like in the long term I could see that
I'm better than the protocol that's the
one thing i
said was having trust lines to these
custodials pretty much like you have
trust lines to to add to assets or
anchors
would be a nice way maybe even you you
could one could think about that
when you have an account and it holds
assets from multiple different anchors
that you can say that
those anchors could jointly recover and
cover your key by
depending on the weights and how many
assets you have there
as well as cloud acid clawback with cap
35 could
put a great job into that but that's
like it would be
awesome to have it in the protocol
embedded but like for our needs it
wouldn't even be
required for short-term solution would
be just like victory
hey let's get two or three trustable
notary solicitors something like that
out there
that we all trust and where we say hey
let's give each
other it doesn't cost me a lot of money
so that it could be like small
small no trees that are just regulated
in some country and you just say
put them up put a process behind that
that you can recover and then
i think it would be fine question just
I think it would be fine question just
to as a quick clarification I'm not
sure i can exactly
sure I can exactly
actually conceptualize what this would
look like if it was embedded in the
protocol and i know it's like
protocol and I know it's like
very early stages high level but i mean
very early stages high level but I mean
could you maybe illustrate that a little
bit more like what what you think that
would look like
basically that if you have so the basic
idea
currently is that you have at public
keys as a signer
and what you could do is when you say
hey we we create trust licenses and take
that for custodian
but these custodians could jointly
recover your key even though they don't
have
weights in your public key could be
so basically they they would have these
anchors would have a public private
keeper somewhere
on the chain and this public private
keeper would have the right to recover
addresses they would have been added as
a signer but you don't have to
explicitly
had them as a signer so basically you
create a trust line to three custodians
and then these three custodians could
jointly recover your funds but you don't
have to add them as a signer
so you don't have this kind of
multi-signature thing added to your
account
gotcha gotcha okay that's really useful
great well this has been a super
interesting and useful discussion and i
have to say
and I'm sure justin and lee feel the
same you know there's been a lot to take
in and digest
i really appreciate you guys sharing
I really appreciate you guys sharing
your perspective and opinion on this and
i have a feeling
I have a feeling
we're we're kind of just kicking this
discussion off so
we did have one or two questions from
the audience which i will
the audience which I will
get up in front of me in just
a second oh not that one there we go
so i'll just throw this out to
everyone i guess can non-custodial
everyone I guess can non-custodial
wallet apps connect
to a bank and have a user receive funds
in their native currency
so that's kind of like a non-custodial
to custodial payout flow
i believe the answer to this is yes
I believe the answer to this is yes
this is actually a type of payment flow
that we facilitate on Stellar
yeah i don't know i think
yeah I don't know I think
this is the intention of of all those
all the steps that have been adopted
so it's like normally an anchor that
complies with
with the existing seps what they would
do is basically allow non-custodial
solution
to be able to get from an anchor
services like
ours like for example a bank
informations that they can like
go from their own bank account
to to like the bank account that the
anchor
has and then that would in exchange
you know give the user some some
some equivalent of of tokens so that
that flow it's it's
it's precisely how today
all of all of the active anchors are
are doing yeah you can use lobster or
vibrant to deposit
a number of different anchors because
they they already interoperate
perfect great thanks guys and then
maybe justin this one's for you step
30 and cap 27 both look cool
do any of the dev libraries or
wallets support these currently
yeah that's an interesting question and
part of why i think it was good to start
part of why I think it was good to start
to have this discussion
cap 27 which marco advocated for
earlier but has come up a couple of
times
is called multiplexed accounts it adds a
new kind of Stellar address at the
protocol level
basically allows a single Stellar
account to map to multiple users
it was added to protocol 13.
however there's it's kind of like we
put in the wiring but we didn't put any
plugs or switches right like there's no
manifestation of this and horizon
are in the sdks and there's no clear way
no clear like methods or standards
for actually using these mixed accounts
so they're there they're just hidden
away and so
with those cap 27 specifically in order
to really be able to use it we'd first
have to build out
the sort of platform layers on top of
the protocol and then we'd have to start
working with people to figure out how
they would actually use those so cap 27
is possible but not really implemented
in
in any existing applications
step 30 on the other hand which is is
not at the protocol level right it
basically
specifies how you can split key recovery
across
multiple different servers run by
different by different
operators right so instead of having a
single key
or instead of trying it it relies on
third parties running these things
called recovery servers right now
vibrant which is a a wallet that
sort of is facilitates usd savings at
the moment mostly
that relies that that uses
two recovery servers to implement sub 30
but if other people in the ecosystem
wanted to start implementing sub 30 in
their wallets this specific key recovery
method
we would need to as an ecosystem get
people to run these things recovery
servers right
recovery servers which are sort of the
servers that you delegate to allow
a user to access their account if they
lose their key
so short answer step 30 is implemented
in one wallet
and could be in more if we set up
recovery servers
that people could use and by we i mean
that people could use and by we I mean
the ecosystem as a whole
having to add one point so this idea
that i mentioned about having trust
that I mentioned about having trust
lines for
focus for not custodians but for key
recovery people
the the major change that it would add
sorry my microphone
brother the major change that it would
add to the current solution is that the
current solution if you add it as a
signer like in step 30 then you are
always getting the other rights as well
so you can always like
jointly transfer funds and stuff like
that having these kind of
recovery service at the protocol level
then it would
really be just okay I'm adding those
people and they can
they can give me a process to recover my
keys but they can never do payments
transactions even if they are
colluding or jointly hacked those kind
of stuff and that would
put a lot of clearance on the legal side
and it would make
this the entire setup a lot easier you
don't have to store keys online and
things like that so
just clarify that yeah i
I i i know that we don't have like a lot
I I know that we don't have like a lot
of time left
but i think it's it's it's interesting
but I think it's it's it's interesting
to keep the conversation going
especially because i think the
especially because I think the
multiplexed accounts can
offer actually widely adopted some level
of of obfuscation to the payments
if like people start using it because
as as
lee said like people can use them
as as you know like like as dynamic
debit card numbers and and it's
interesting if
the entire ecosystem adopts it then like
people would be sending money over with
different
m accounts and that will like obvious
scale a lot of the the information
which is really interesting yeah well it
sounds like
on both fronts both on kind of step 30s
key recovery design
and muxed accounts on the cop27 side we
have a lot of thinking to do i think
have a lot of thinking to do I think
you know as we kind of said in the
beginning this is the beginning
of these conversations or maybe the
middle i guess they've been going on for
middle I guess they've been going on for
a while so
we'll definitely be continuing them
so with that i would say you know i
so with that I would say you know i
think it's time to to wrap up the
discussion today
but i think it's likely we may want
but I think it's likely we may want
to all meet back here
in a few months certainly after
meridian
and continue this conversation hopefully
making some progress in the time between
so
you know again christian mind hard marco
we can't thank you enough for your time
today and for sharing your perspective
and i hope everyone has a wonderful
and I hope everyone has a wonderful
halloween weekend and we'll talk again
soon
thanks everybody thanks everybody
bye-bye